Hello and good morning everyone. My name is Greg Stephens and as I've stated in my previous essay, my main goal is to enhance my knowledge and versatility in web development to create useful and easy to use programs. To accomplish this goal, I had previously picked out three ideas on my project that would be useful in building my foundation of background elements of a program. Now after some thought and reflection, I have decided to build a database with a gui interface for the heirarchy of the airforce. This heirarchy would include the 


This database will require an extensive amount of information to include mission statements, locations, AFSC's(Jobs), interopability with other branches, and downrange presence of each majcom of the branch down the tree of heirarchy to the units themselves. if possible, positions will be filled by name of officials/officers currently fulfilling the position.

the program accessing the database will have the ability to alter, insert, modify or remove just about any facet of the database in order to keep the database relevant and up to date. it will have a read-only and modifier account setting to protect the information from being manipulated or accidentally altered. 

users will be able to interact directly with the database if need be by using a gui that will simplify the altering, adding, or removing of information. the gui will have simple window boxes that correspond with an attribute of the database information(wing, group, unit, mission, location) to make it simple to modify. the read-only setting will only display the current information through search functions, delivering the information in a concise and simplified format for the easiest processing of information for the user.

With all of this information in mind, I believe that this goal to create a database interface is achieveable. making this program will strengthen my foundations of software development and make me a better creator in the long run. In addition to making me a better programmer, a readily available system of this nature is something I feel would benefit people of the military greatly for joint operation situational awareness. I myself would have benefited greatly from understanding the organizations I worked with during missions and services. In short I feel this project would have a positive effect on others as well as myself.